# comp140-gam160-game
Repository for Assignment 1 of COMP140-GAM160

# GAM160 Video Game Proposal

# Proposal
The game is about making cocktails by adding the right ingredients and properly shaking it to be served in a glass. The game is inspired by a game called “Yo Bartender” which also involved the player making cocktails. However, for that game you must physically pick up the bottles and the glass you pour in into is also a joystick that controls the movement of the glass so that it can be served to the customer (Burgun Keith 2018). The player will be making as many cocktails as possible within the given time. The game involves the player putting the right ingredients in the correct order. In addition, the player will need to shake the drink with the right amount of force and pour the drink into a glass. When the player shakes the cocktail bar will show how long the player needs to shake until it is done. As well as that, a meter will change from red to green depending on how much force is being used to shake the drink. This is to let the player know how much force is needed to properly shake it, the force needed to shake it will randomise per drink. The order of the ingredients will be randomised every time the player has finished making the previous cocktail. However, the game could have a list of cocktails and choose one randomly to test the player’s memory. Since the controller will only have five buttons - besides the button that opens the shaker – The bar level will only have five ingredients and the maximum number of layers will be five. When the player presses one of the buttons the bottle or object will tilt forward to pour the ingredient.
The player will need to hold the shaker under where the ingredient is being poured to catch the ingredient. The ingredients won’t be in order with the buttons so the player will have to remember which button activates the right ingredient. This is to add some form of challenge to the game. The player will need to open and close the lid otherwise the ingredients won’t go into the shaker. As well as that, if the player shakes the shaker while it is open then the drink will spill out and the player will have to start from scratch. When the player is pouring the drink, they need to hold the shaker upside down for the top to open otherwise if it’s held right side up the whole of the lid will open instead. If the player adds the wrong ingredients or puts them in the incorrect order, then the drink is poured and served the player’s time will be reduced.
The player’s score and name will be displayed on a score board along with the scores from the other players, the player with the highest score will be displayed at the top of the score board. The player’s name can be typed in via the buttons on the controller. The game will be 3D since it would require the player to lean or move around more rather than simply moving their arm if the game was in 2D. The game will be set in a bar with a beach background. The background may change depending on the type of cocktail being made, e.g. a summer cocktail would change the background to Hawaiian background. the ingredients will be placed like an arch to make the player move around. The virtual shaker will have areas which will light up depending on which button is pressed on the physical controller.
The game is meant to give off a sense of competitiveness hence why the game has the scoreboard. As stated by Keith “most competitive games have been, more or less, “symmetrical” games –games like chess or go, where each player start out with exactly the same power s at his fingertips. However, if you were designing chess, you’d still have to worry about the individual pieces being balanced. Yes, the queen is quite obviously more powerful than the rook, but the downside is that there’s only one of her”(2011). In other words, the competitive games start off with the players having the same amount of power but will become more powerful over time, but for it to remain fun for the other the more powerful tools should be more scares. This works for my game too since at the beginning each player will start off with the same power. But as players gets better at the game, they will be able to know which ingredient is which. In addition, (if the game has specific recipes) the player will know which ingredient to use next faster than newer players.

# Core Mechanics
The core mechanics of the cocktail maker game will be opening the shaker to add the different ingredients. The player will often be selecting the ingredients and trying to put them in the correct order. The player will also be closing the shaker’s lid and shaking it hard or softly enough for the right amount of time. In addition, the player will be opening and pouring the drink to a glass for it to be served.

# Bibliography
Burgun Keith. 'Understanding Balance in Video Games'. Available at: https://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/134768/understanding_balance_in_video_.php. [Accessed Feb 7,].

COUTURE, Joel. 'Alt.Ctrl.GDC Showcase: Yo, Bartender'. Available at: /view/news/313808/AltCtrlGDC_Showcase_Yo_Bartender.php. [Accessed Feb 7,].
